In this video we're going to take a quick break from our notes application to talk about a javascript
feature that we're going to be using throughout the course.
That is iOS 6 aero functions and we're going to take a moment to explore them over in the playground
directory in isolation.
Then once we know how they work and how they differ from standard yes five functions will actually integrate
them into our node application.
Let's kick things off by creating a brand new script in that playground directory.
I'm going to call this to hyphen arrow function dot J S.
And then here we're going to mess around with some examples.
Exploring this new syntax.
Let's start with a simple example.
I'm going to make a standard function like the ones we've been creating so far.
I'll create a constant called Square and this little square function is going to take in a number and
return to the square of that number.
So I can call this single argument something like X and all I need to do is return x times x and we're
done.
Now at this point we have a regular function which we can use.
I'm going to consult dot log whatever comes back from calling square and I'll pass in a number like
three.
Now the square of three would be nine.
It sends three times three is nine.
Let's go ahead and make sure it's working.
Down below in the terminal I'll use C D.
Dot dot forward slash playground to navigate into the playground directory.
Once I'm here I'm going to clear the terminal output and use node mom to fire up our script so no demand
to hyphen arrow hyphen function dot J S.
And once I run it I would expect to see the number nine print and that is exactly what we're getting.
So we have a regular function in place.
How do we create an arrow function.
Let's comment out our existing square function and recreate it using the arrow function syntax.
Now down below we're going to start that off.
Much the same way by defining a variable.
I'm going to create a constant called Square exactly like we did up above and then after the equals
sign we define our arrow function.
Now the arrow function syntax is slightly different than a standard function.
The first difference is that we don't use the function keyword at all.
We actually start with our arguments list.
So right here after the equals sign the first thing I'm going to do is set up my arguments list.
Next up we put the arrow in Arrow function by using the equal sign followed by the greater than symbol
to create this little arrow from there.
We can set up our curly braces and define what the function is supposed to do.
So in our case we can set up the same argument we had up above.
We're gonna have just a single one x though we could have zero.
Or we could have forty four and inside of the function itself.
All we're going to do is return x times x exactly like we were doing up above.
Now if we go ahead and save the program we can see we're getting the exact same result down below the
number nine is indeed printing even though we're using this new syntax.
And now that we have a basic aero function in place let's start to explore some of its hidden features
that make it a tool worth using and the first is its shorthand syntax with a lot of the functions we
end up writing in JavaScript and node j s the end up being pretty simple.
We take in some arguments and immediately return some result.
Now this might not seem like the most real world function out there but we already have functions of
a similar pattern in our application in notes.
J.
S for example we have one of those functions right here which we pass to filter it takes in an argument
it immediately returns some result we did the same thing for our other filter call and it's something
we'll be doing over and over again throughout the class.
Now when we do this there is an alternative syntax we can use to create a more concise aero function
and we're going to explore that now.
So right here let's comment out our second version of square and create a third version.
So const square equals and right here we're gonna start in much the same way as we did up above.
We are going to set up our arguments list and once again we can take in as few or as many as we need
in this case just one then after the arguments list we move on to our arrow once again exactly like
we did up above.
Now here's where things differ.
If our function was just going to have a single statement which returned something we can put that something
right here which means I can just type out x times x there's no need for curly braces.
There's not even a need for the return keyword.
Whatever you put right after the arrow is going to be implicitly returned.
Now if I save the program what do we get down below.
We get nine and if I were to switch up the value swapping three out for two I can see that four is showing
up down below.
Now you're not going to be able to use the shorthand syntax for every arrow function you create only
for simpler ones where you immediately return some sort of value.
If you have more complexity to your function such as an if statement or a for loop you would indeed
use the long form version where you set up curly braces and add as many lines of code as you need right
inside.
So sometimes we'll use standard arrow functions and if we can we'll take advantage of the shorthand
syntax when possible.
Now I want to take a quick moment to switch gears and talk about how arrow functions work in the context
of methods so arrow functions as properties on an object.
Let's start by commenting out both of our lines from the previous example and moving on to our second
one down below for this one.
We're going to define an object.
Let's create a concept and we'll create an object useful for someone like an event planner.
So I'm going to name this variable event.
The value is indeed going to be an object and for the moment we're going to set up two properties the
first name is going to be a string.
And for this we can just pick a name for our fictitious event.
Let's go ahead and do something like a birthday party.
So we'll say we're throwing a birthday party and the other property is going to have a function value.
This method is going to be called something like print guest lists.
Now for the moment we don't have a guest list but that's OK we're gonna set the property value equal
to a standard function for now.
And we're going to do is use console dialog to print a little title for our guest list saying something
like guest list for followed by the event name.
So guest list for birthday party to do this we're gonna use console dialog and we'll start off with
some static text something like guest list for then a space followed by the actual event name.
So we're gonna read that property value right here.
We know that with our methods with our functions as object properties we have access to the original
object via the this binding.
So this is a reference to our object right here which means we can access properties on this like this
dot name.
And there we go.
Now let's go ahead and use it down below.
Event dot print.
Guest list and then the end of the day when I save the script I would expect to see my one message printing
and that is exactly what I get down below.
We have guest list for birthday party.
Now let's swap out our function for an arrow function like we did up above.
So we're gonna take it from looking a bit like this to looking more like what we had here to do that
we remove the function keyword starting off with our arguments list and all we need to do from there
is put the arrow in between the arguments list and our curly brace that starts the code block.
This is indeed valid syntax for getting this done but if we save the program we're going to notice we
don't get the result we might be expecting.
Down below I have a guest list for undefined printing so clearly it is unable to find the name property
and put birthday party in there and that is because arrow functions they don't bind their own this value
which means that we do not have access to this as a reference to this object because of the fact we're
using an arrow function so arrow functions are well suited for methods properties that are functions
when we want to access this.
So in this case it would be best to use a standard function.
I'm going to revert back to the code we had before.
Now we have a working application but it doesn't mean we're stuck with this exact definition.
There's actually an yes 6 method shorthand that allows us to use a shorter more concise syntax while
still having access to standard function features like a this binding.
So right here to do that what we do is we remove the function keyword and we also remove the colon.
So it goes from the method name right into the arguments list quickly followed by the function body.
This is indeed a standard function which does have this binding.
It is not an arrow function it's just using an alternative syntax available to us when we're setting
up methods on objects.
If I save the program we are back to a working state using this more concise syntax.
Now why exactly do arrow functions avoid their own this binding and there are plenty of examples.
And we're going to explore one right now.
Let's go ahead and add some more data onto event.
We have the Name property.
We're also going to add a guest list property.
This is going to be an array of strings where each string is the name of a guest who's going to attend.
I'm gonna go to my own birthday party so I'll toss myself in there.
I'll also invite Jen and Mike will limit this one to three guests.
A nice small gathering and now the goal is to print that guest list just below the summary.
So we're going to add some code right here.
We have guest list for birthday party.
Now we're going to list out each individual guest.
I'm gonna get that done using the for each method on arrays.
So I have access to my array via this dot guest list on there.
We have the for each method similar to filter it takes in a function.
This function gets called one time for every array item.
So once for each guest and we get access to the guest the this first argument.
So each item could be called the guest.
I could pick whatever name I wanted for this argument.
From there we're gonna use console dialog to print a message.
I'm gonna say something like Andrew is attending a birthday party.
Then Jen is attending birthday party followed by Mike.
So right here it will start off with the person's name which I can just access via this guest variable
right here guest.
So we start off with the name.
Then we'll can contaminate on some static text.
So Andrew is attending and right here after a space we will can keep an eye on the name of the event.
That would be this dot name.
Exactly like we had up above.
Now if I go ahead and save the program we can see if things are working and clearly they're not.
I have a guest list for a birthday party which looks great.
Then I have an Andrew is attending undefined the same thing with Jen and Mike.
The names are showing up.
We're just not seeing the event name at the end of the string.
This once again it has to do with this bindings.
So standard functions like the one we've created here.
As I mentioned are going to have their own this binding and that's a problem.
We actually don't want this function to have its own this binding.
I want to be able to access the this binding of its parent function which is print.
Guest list because there I was able to use this dot name.
Now in the past there were all sorts of work arounds for this one.
I remember from my early javascript days was creating a variable called that setting and equal to this.
So essentially creating a reference that we could access later then down below in the other function
I would use that name and that would indeed work.
So right here I can see the program works as expected.
Now that's not ideal and that's when arrow functions solved this problem.
So I'm going to undo this little that example.
I'll switch that back to this and I'll remove the that constant up above.
And now we're back to our broken example where we're getting on defined the solution here is to just
swap out this standard function for an arrow function.
So I'm going to remove the function keyword and I'm going to put an arrow between the arguments list
and our curly braces when I do this and save the file we can see our program is working as expected
arrow functions don't bind their own this value they access the this value in the context in which they're
created which in this case is right inside of print guest list.
That means we have access to this dot name pointing to the property up above.
So there are three key takeaways from this video.
One is the alternative syntax.
So that is comparing this function to this function.
The other is the fact that with aero functions we have this shorthand syntax.
And the last of the three key takeaways is that arrow functions don't bind their own this value that
makes them poor candidates for methods.
And it makes them great candidates for pretty much everything else.
So throughout this course we will never use a function where we have that function keyword we're either
going to use arrow functions or when necessary we'll use the E6 method definition syntax which we've
used right here and that's the approach I've taken with all of my personal and client projects as well.
All right.
So we've taken a quick look at Aero functions but you haven't gotten any experience actually using them
in the next video.
There's gonna be an arrow function challenge and we're also going to refactor our notes application
to use aero functions everywhere we can.
I'm excited to get to that.
So let's go ahead and jump right in to the next video.